Hi.
We didn't this lecture we going to start learning about functions.
So in order to do that I'm going to create another playground.
Because these functions deserve is actually their own playground.
OK.
This is an important subject.
I'm going to go for the desktop and my playground and I'm going to create this.
So what is a function and why do we use them so function is actually a piece of code.
Okay.
It's a coding block and in fact it's very easy to create one if you use words func K you can name your
function whatever you want.
Like that's my function.
And if you open and close parentheses then you can open a curly braces.
So but they were V right inside of this function will get executed.
Then we call or something.
Cole's dysfunction.
So what does even this mean.
It means that if I write something in here like printing out something whenever I call my function in
my code this will execute what I write inside of this piece of code.
So why do we use functions.
If I write something in a function I can call it anytime I want.
So it will be much more efficient for me.
Like if I say print my function OK I can call this whenever I want.
And with prints of course it doesn't make sense but I'm gonna show you much more useful ways of functions.
Don't worry.
Right now I just want to show you something.
If I run this what will happen.
Do I see any log inside my LO cat or inside of my logs.
Of course I won't because this function will not get executed by itself.
It has to be cold or it has to be assigned to some view or some button or something so that when a user
clicks on a button it will get cold.
But right now I'm just creating the function I'm not doing anything else with it.
I'm not calling the function itself.
So let's see.
As you can see I don't have anything in my luck but if I print something over here like some tasks or
print OK I can see it's right as you can see I see the print but I don't see my function because again
defining your function and calling the function is two different things.
So if I say my function over here then this will be called in the line nine.
So let me run this as you can see first I see the print.
Then I see my function whenever I call this whatever I write in here.
This will get executed.
So first of all it's a great way to make yourself make your codes more readable but more in a structured
way because for example you have to do some 1000 line operation and you have to do it to twice or three
times.
You can write it in a function and you can just call this function later on in three ways so that it
will get executed three times so rather than copying and pasting or just writing whole 1000 lines in
your code and this is not the only way.
This is not the only purpose that we are using functions at all we can do so much more with functions
we can't take inputs and we can return outputs with the function and that is basically why we use function
in most cases.
But again if you understand the logic here I create my function and I call my function then it's OK
because this is the basis of the functions we create a function we write whatever we wanted to happen
inside of that function and then we call it it gets executed.
So let me tell you about does input output and returning things.
So you would understand the functions purpose a little bit more so in here in function I can get an
input from the user or from decoding from the developer or something.
What do I mean.
Let me create the sum function in which I will.
Some I will add two numbers together.
Okay.
So how can I do that.
I can ask for two integers when some function is get called in order to do that.
I will write them here.
I will call 1 acts and I'm going to say X is an integer.
I'm going to call the other one Y and the y will be an integer as well.
Right now when I call some function it will ask me to you two integers and I can do anything I want
with them I can just some them and I can just print the results.
Okay.
Like this.
If I if I can write print x plus y so litmus test is actually let me call some function and as you can
see this code this actually asks for an X and the Y So X is integer Y's integer.
So if I do something like this it will give me an error because it will ask me for an integer not a
string.
I have to give you some integer over here like 10 20 and if I run does it will add them together and
display the result to me.
So what if I want to return some results rather than displaying it.
What do I mean by return.
So I can return anything I want.
I give an output.
And in order to do that I have to do it like this.
This will return an integer you literally draw one arrow here saying that this will return something.
Okay so with Dash and greater sign of course.
And if I don't do it it can just print out it can just return nothing.
And as you can see it shows a void or here.
Void means nothing.
It means emptiness.
So it returns nothing.
But if I say ends then this some function will give me an output of an integer.
Okay.
Then I can use the result of the sum function in an integer way.
So if I have to give an integer to some place in my code I can call this some function and I can make
it the return x plus y.
So a return means return the output.
So if I call some function as you can see now it's an integer it's returning an integer to me.
Now I won't see the result in the logs when I call this because this won't be a print statement or something.
This will be an integer itself.
I will see the result on the right hand side.
Okay but I won't see it in logs.
So this is the integer turkey.
I can make it even a new variable and I can make it actually be equal to some function like my function
variable.
Okay some function x 10 20.
Because my function variable is actually an integer at this point.
Right.
So I can do that.
So I if I want to I can return something with functions and I can use them as variables and if I don't
want to I don't have to return anything yet.
Oh and I can do whatever I want to do with functions.
So can I just return integers.
No of course I can't return boolean XX or strings if I want.
Let me create a logic function for example.
This will take again an integer.
OK.
Or maybe we can call this a.
In order to avoid any confusion.
And B and this will return a boolean instead of integer.
OK so how can I use this.
I can't check to see if a is bigger than B and the return true if that happens like this.
If a is greater than B then return true.
Right.
So else return false.
So I can't compare this SMB and I can return a boolean instead of returning an integer if I want I can
return this string.
It really doesn't matter.
I can just have it in a way that I want.
So let me call this logic function and let me give 10 as 0 2 here and let me run this and we can see
the result is true.
So I if I do this minus 10 that I will see the result will be false.
So this is kind of cool right.
We can create our own functions we can create our own pieces of code that does anything that we want.
So we get to use those functions a lot.
So let me do a little bit more example.
Rather than returning boolean.
Let me see greater let me say greater over here and let me say less.
So we are returning a string right now as you can see.
So we have adapted this function in less than a second.
So this is like the returning less right now rather than false.
So you can create functions you can adapt them in a way you want.
You can return boolean as you can return integers you can return nothing.
Void if you want.
You just don't have to draw these arrow things.
So far we have been only working with Ray Ables.
So right now we're working with functions and the next step actually would be to work with classes.
OK so classes will consist of lots of functions or something but we're not going to learn about classes
right now we're going to do that in a separate section.
The intermediate swift section so far right now we've got to stop here and within the next lecture we
going to discuss options.